did you know eating human flesh is
better than a health potion in Baldur's
Gate 3 or that you can move hundreds of
items easily with just one click what
about the AOE spells can be used to
activate potions without requiring any
action points if not then you're in the
right place let's get things started
with the most overpowered item you
probably started with and that's the
mask of the shapeshifter this item opens
up so many options in this game it
allows you to shrink your character's
size down to that of a halfling and
squeeze into small holes that normally
the larger characters cannot enter as
you play this game you're going to come
across many items that have this
conditional racial tag on them such as
the sword which causes any gith Yankee
using it to get an additional bonus rule
for their damage you can shapeshift to
allow any race to get that bonus to get
this to work you must transform and then
re-equip the weapon afterwards because
it checks on equip if you're the correct
race in the current version of the game
the Helms ability can also be cast and
then Switched Off to another Helm
allowing you to keep the transformation
active you can even shapeshift to skip
multiple encounters and still get full
experience such as posing as a drow or a
gift Yankee to unlock unique dialogues
which completely the fight so the next
time you see those racist gifts around
try posing as one and it might be a
little friendlier shape-shifting can
even be used to get extra rewards
through certain dialogues the best use
case I found for this is that in act 1
you can speak to the camp cook to get
the item gruel it causes zero action
points to use even while in combat and
it heals for more than a minor healing
potion you can even spam multiple gruel
during one turn in a fight but normally
you're limited to just one of these per
character shape shifting allows you to
switch to another race and get a second
one of these you can repeat that for
each character if you really wanted to
just make sure you take the gruel out of
your camp supply section where it might
default to but if you don't have the
mask of the shapeshifter you can also do
all of these tricks using the shapeshift
spell next we'll take a look at
hirelings for only 100 gold you can pick
them up and they come with a
resurrection scroll a health potion and
a full set of gear so if you really
wanted to you can strip them of their
gear and go sell it and get most of your
money back anyways with the added bonus
of generating your own nudist colony
hirings can also be used to get more
attempts to re-roll something that you
may have failed so if you didn't have a
save file and you're desperate to see
what would happen if you pass that skill
check go to your Camp pick up your
hireling bring it back and do the check
or maybe you just leveled up and you
want to test out your new spell and you
don't have a Target dummy in your Camp
well now you do or if you want to use
the starion's bite ability on them it'll
make him happy you can have up to three
hirelings at once and easily change them
out for different ones or change their
classes As You Wish every time you long
rest their spell slots are fully
restored at Camp so you can go to Camp
pick one of these up just to get them to
use their knock ability to open a locked
door in some area and then dismiss them
right after this also remains true for a
spell like feather fall or if you needed
some additional healing between your
fights now if you really wanted to
exploit these hirelings you can use
their Buffs while in Camp such as Aid or
longstrider any buff that is not
considered to be concentrated you're
going to have a much easier time in Act
2 if you use the hireling to cast
daylight on one of your characters or
with just a few Druids you can summon
good berries to have enough for your
long rests and never have to worry about
camp supplies again now let's look at a
few ways to make your item Management in
Baldur's Gate a lot simpler some amazing
new features got added that I think a
lot of people didn't know about for one
example we now have shift clicking which
allows you to click one item and then
hold shift and click another item in
your bags it will then select all the
items in between allowing you to drag
hundreds of items at once making it easy
to drop them on the floor set them to an
ally or drag them into a chest they've
also added control clicking which is a
very similar feature allowing you to
individually click items and then add
them to a group selection to drag them
at once but the annoying part is that
both of these features do not work at
the vendor screen but luckily I've got a
trick for that too so before you go to
speak to the vendor you can shift-click
or control click the items in your bags
and then right click them and click add
to Wares now when you go to the vendor
hit the trade button at the top and then
now at the bottom it'll say sellwares
which instantly sells them all for you
rather than having to click them one by
one also when you hit tab there's now
this very useful search inventory button
in the top left corner as well as a sort
by option the sort by is most useful for
finding something heavy that you
accidentally picked up and now encumbers
you and I find the search option most
useful for finding my healing potions or
my resurrection Scrolls because if you
play this game the way I do and pick up
every single item in the game because
you never know when you might need a
severed hand then you're never going to
find anything in this mess without using
search
you can also combine search and shift
clicking to make it very easy to sort
your items into specific bags for
example if you wanted a bag of just
Scrolls you can easily search Scrolls
hold shift and click them all and drag
them in or if you want all of your
arrows on the ranger easy search arrows
shift-click send done and lastly we have
shift click dragging which allows you to
split your Stacks very easily then you
can double click the number here type in
the exact amount that you want to split
the stack into and then send it to your
friends in multiplayer much easier in
the bottom left of your screen when
you're in a conversation there are four
buttons that people often Overlook
there's the trade button which is
probably the most well-known one
allowing you to trade with nearly anyone
even characters that normally don't have
a trade option in their dialogue tree
but then you have these other buttons
that almost nobody uses this one is
character select often times one of your
characters is stuck in dialogue but your
other characters can move around freely
so if you're in conversation and you see
that your character has the option for
attack and you know that you're going to
use that option take a moment go to the
character selection screen and
reposition the characters for a fight
that way you're not all grouped up and
just get AOE down on the first turn or
you can set up your melee to go into a
specific spot for the fight there's also
this attack option right here this
attack option is actually pretty cool
when you're watching a cutscene
sometimes you're gonna see that a
character ran away at the end of it or
they locked a door on you or maybe
during the cutscene the character just
died and you probably never even got any
dialogue options but by hitting this
attack button you can actually interrupt
the scene and oftentimes you can attack
them during it allowing you to possibly
intervene and save a character who you
thought had a scripted death or get
through a door that would normally be
locked at the end of the cutscene lastly
this button here is the dialogue history
button so if you skipped a scene by
mistake you can review it here it's most
useful in multiplayer when you showed up
late to the conversation and you can
catch up yourself real quick
I think most people know that you can
click and drag items around the world or
even directly out of your bags and place
them or even rotate them with the mouse
wheel but you may not have realized that
it's very strong in battles because it
costs no action points you can drop
throwable items such as alcohol or
Alchemist fire directly into a ground
effect like cloud of daggers or a pool
of fire allowing them to trigger without
using any of your action points just
click the item in your bag and drag it
to the floor this even works for health
potions so you can trigger them right at
the edge of the cloud of daggers and
walk through them to pop multiple health
potions in a single turn doorways
hallways and ladders can also easily be
blocked off with items giving you more
time if you're in a desperate situation
and actually doors in this game are
going to be your best friend in combat
they act as a funnel so as long as you
stay on one side of the door enemies
will keep coming to you you can set up
traps in the doorways such as items or
spell effects or you can keep closing
the door and using it as a shield after
you attack
now let's go over what static weapons
are you should keep your eyes out for
weapons or armor that can help you out
with bonus stats even if you never
actually use it a couple examples here
are Shields humans are proficient in
Shields so having a shield equipped is
basically two AC for free even if you
never use the shield making a human
Ranger or spellcaster much more
defensive than other options also there
are a few items in the game such as this
dagger here which increase your
character's crit chance but that crit
chance modifier does not just apply to
attacks with the dagger it also applies
to your ranged attacks and your spells
one more example is the bow of the
Banshee this effect causes your Bose
attacks to possibly inflict frightened
on the Target and in a 1d4 bonus to your
hit and damage rolls if they are
frightened the bonus damage rolls are
also applied to your melee attacks or
your spells as a Caster as you can see
in my combat log right here next we have
reactions reactions are an additional
stat in the combat economy which in the
early game is mostly reserved for things
like attack of opportunity but as you
progress through the game you're going
to get a lot more of these and they're
usually defaulted to be on AutoCast but
to be honest you don't want these things
to be on AutoCast for optimal play so by
toggling them to ask when you get to
make the decision about when it happens
you can avoid a bad opportunity attack
such as on exploding on death targets or
when you're fighting an enemy that may
switch its focus to the last Target that
hit it so there are times that you do
not want these reactions to happen you
can do this by going into the reactions
button here clicking on this little icon
and then toggling them to ask if you
don't want that reaction to be used ever
then click the button on the left and
it'll never pop up to ask you about it
again I like to do that with spells that
I don't want to use higher level spell
slots on now the rest of these tips I
have for you guys today are a little bit
more specific such as picking up corpses
if you run a necromancer build and find
yourself struggling to find them all the
time just pick a few of them up send
them to camp and raise them as you need
or if you're fighting an enemy who keeps
raising the dead you can pick up those
corpses so that they run out of fuel
during the fight you can cancel
concentration on a spell by clicking
this little X under the character's
portrait it's very useful for a spell
like cloud of dayers to prevent any
accidental injuries you can use shove to
push a locked chest off of a cliff to
break them open if you're too weak to do
it yourself much like gruel that I
mentioned earlier in the video there's
another item in the game called
suspicious meat which you're gonna find
for of very easily in the goblin Camp
prison in act 1. next to a dismembered
corpse if you just pick up the item it
would go into your camp supplies but if
you take it out of your camp supplies
you'll find that you can right click it
and consume by doing this it rolls a 4d4
healing effect much like gruel this does
not use any action points even while in
combat and you have no downside to doing
this you don't need to click the beds
when you go for a long rest you can just
keep hitting the button in the bottom
right to speed up the process the
illusion spell in this game is totally
broken you can group up enemies into one
area very quickly similarly a Bard can
perform in front of a group of NPCs to
do the same thing for Act 2 it's very
useful to put a torch in your weapon on
your hotkeys so you can just press one
and two to switch between them and now
I'm gonna end off the video with a few
more tips that are just clearly exploits
you can pickpocket Withers an unlimited
amount of times and he never gets angry
when you fail you can keep spamming it
to eventually get all of the gold back
that you've given him during your
playthrough meaning resurrections and
hirelings are literally free for a short
period in the game you're going to have
access to waypoints that go between acts
when you do this it actually fully heals
all of your characters except for
hirelings and if they were dead it
restores them back to life you can use
crates to jump over the walls in the
basement areas of maps but to be honest
those last few tips they're probably all
going to be patched out if you've
learned anything new in this video be
sure to leave a like And subscribe for
future content anyways thanks for
watching proxy out